Baremetal documentation (#300)
metal3-io/metal3-docs: docs/user-guide/src/baremetal/guide.md

# Baremetal provisioning

> This is a guide to provision baremetal servers using Metal³ project. This is generic guide with basic implementation, different hardwares may require different configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a guide to provision baremetal servers using the Metal³ project. This is generic guide with basic implementation, different hardware may require different configuration.
In this guide we will use minikube as management cluster.
All commands are executed on the host where minikube is set up.
This is a separate machine, e.g. your laptop or one of the servers, that has access to the network where the servers are in order to provision them.
```

  sudo docker push 192.168.111.1:5000/localimages/cluster-api-provider-metal3:main
  ```

* Start httpd container

  ```bash
  sudo docker run -d --net host --privileged --name httpd-infra -v /opt/metal3-dev-env/ironic:/shared --entrypoint /bin/runhttpd --env
  ```

## Launch management cluster using minikube

* Creates minikube management cluster.

  ```bash
  minikube start

  # Configuring ironicendpoint with minikube
  minikube ssh sudo brctl addbr ironicendpoint
  minikube ssh sudo ip link set ironicendpoint up
  minikube ssh sudo brctl addif ironicendpoint eth2
  minikube ssh sudo ip addr add 172.22.0.9/24 dev ironicendpoint
  ```

* Launch capm3.

  ```bash
  kubectl create namespace metal3
  clusterctl init --core cluster-api:v1.4.2 --bootstrap kubeadm:v1.4.2 --control-plane kubeadm:v1.4.2 --infrastructure=metal3:v1.4.0 -v5
  ```

* Launch baremetal operator.

  ```bash
  # Clone BMO repo
  git clone https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator.git
  # Run deploy.sh
  ./baremetal-operator/tools/deploy.sh -b -k -t
  ```

* Launch ironic.

  ```bash
  # Run deploy.sh
  ./baremetal-operator/tools/deploy.sh -i -k -t
  ```

> ## Create secrets and crds for BareMetalHosts

Reviewer: The CRDs were already installed with BMO. I think you meant the CRs, but they are BMHs so lets just call them that :slightly_smiling_face: 
```suggestion
## Create Secrets and BareMetalHosts
```

  Login to the host from where you want to provision. The baremetal nodes should be accesible from the host via one of the following protocols

    * IPMI
    * Redfish
    * WSMAN
    * iRMC
    * ibmc
    * iLO

>   Here is description of bmh crd <https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator/blob/main/config/crd/bases/metal3.io_baremetalhosts.yaml>. Create yaml files for each bmh that will be used. Below is an example

Reviewer: Not sure if it is useful to link to the definition. It is is certainly not very human readable :slightly_frowning_face: 
```suggestion
Create yaml files for each BareMetalHost that will be used. Below is an example.
```

  ```yaml
  ---
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: <<secret_name_bmh1>>
  type: Opaque
  data:
    username: <<username_bmh1>>
    password: <<password_bmh1>>
  ---
  apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
    kind: BareMetalHost
    metadata:
      name: <<id_bmh1>>
    spec:
      online: true
      bootMACAddress: <<mac_address_bmh1>>
      bootMode: legacy
      bmc:
        address: <<address_bmh1>> // this depends on the protocol that are mentioned above, they depend on hardware vendor
        credentialsName: <<secret_name_bmh1>>
        disableCertificateVerification: true
  ```

>   Deploy bmhost yamls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the manifests.
```

  ```bash
  kubectl apply -f ./bmh1.yaml -n metal3
  ```

>   Wait for bmh to be available. Once bmhs are available, we management cluster and provisioned bmhs. Next step is to create target cluster that will use these bmhs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the BareMetalHosts will go through `registering` and `inspection` phases before they become `available`.
Wait for all of them to be available. You can check their status with `kubectl get bmh -n metal3`.
The next step is to create a workload cluster from these BareMetalHosts.
```

  # The URL of the ramdisk to deploy.
  export DEPLOY_RAMDISK_URL="http://172.22.0.1:6180/images/ironic-python-agent.initramfs"

  # The URL of the Ironic endpoint.
  export IRONIC_URL="http://172.22.0.1:6385/v1/"

  # The URL of the Ironic inspector endpoint.
  export IRONIC_INSPECTOR_URL="http://172.22.0.1:5050/v1/"

  # Do not use a dedicated CA certificate for Ironic API. Any value provided in this variable disables additional CA certificate validation.
  # To provide a CA certificate, leave this variable unset. If unset, then IRONIC_CA_CERT_B64 must be set.
  export IRONIC_NO_CA_CERT=true

  # Disables basic authentication for Ironic API. Any value provided in this variable disables authentication.
  # To enable authentication, leave this variable unset. If unset, then IRONIC_USERNAME and IRONIC_PASSWORD must be set.
  export IRONIC_NO_BASIC_AUTH=true

  # Disables basic authentication for Ironic inspector API. Any value provided in this variable disables authentication.
  # To enable authentication, leave this variable unset. If unset, then IRONIC_INSPECTOR_USERNAME and IRONIC_INSPECTOR_PASSWORD must be set.
  export IRONIC_INSPECTOR_NO_BASIC_AUTH=true

>   # Generate templates with clusterctl, change control plane and worker count according to the number of bmhs

Reviewer: It seems the image related variables are missing above?

  # Ironic Client
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/ironic-client

  # Ironic
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/ironic:latest

  # Ironic python agent
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/ironic-ipa-downloader

  # MariaDB
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/mariadb:latest

  # Keepalived
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/keepalived:latest

  # Metal3 IP address manager
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/ip-address-manager:main

  # Cluster API proviser metal3
  sudo docker pull registry.nordix.org/quay-io-proxy/metal3-io/cluster-api-provider-metal3:main
  ```

* Start httpd container. This is used to host the the OS images that the BareMetalHosts will be provisioned with.

  ```bash
  sudo docker run -d --net host --privileged --name httpd-infra -v /opt/metal3-dev-env/ironic:/shared --entrypoint /bin/runhttpd --env
  ```

  Download image from here <https://artifactory.nordix.org/artifactory/metal3/images/k8s_v1.27.1> and put it /opt/metal3-dev-env/ironic/html/images folder.

>   Convert qcow2 image to raw image and create hash of raw image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Convert the qcow2 image to raw format and get the hash of the raw image
```

  # Do not use a dedicated CA certificate for Ironic API. Any value provided in this variable disables additional CA certificate validation.
  # To provide a CA certificate, leave this variable unset. If unset, then IRONIC_CA_CERT_B64 must be set.
  export IRONIC_NO_CA_CERT=true

  # Disables basic authentication for Ironic API. Any value provided in this variable disables authentication.
  # To enable authentication, leave this variable unset. If unset, then IRONIC_USERNAME and IRONIC_PASSWORD must be set.
  export IRONIC_NO_BASIC_AUTH=true

  # Disables basic authentication for Ironic inspector API. Any value provided in this variable disables authentication.
  # To enable authentication, leave this variable unset. If unset, then IRONIC_INSPECTOR_USERNAME and IRONIC_INSPECTOR_PASSWORD must be set.
  export IRONIC_INSPECTOR_NO_BASIC_AUTH=true

  # Export node image variable and node image hash varibale that we created before. Change name according to what was downlowded from artifactory
  export IMAGE_RAW_URL=http://172.22.0.1/images/CENTOS_9_NODE_IMAGE_K8S_v1.27.1-raw.img
  export IMAGE_RAW_CHECKSUM=http://172.22.0.1/images/CENTOS_9_NODE_IMAGE_K8S_v1.27.1-raw.img.sha256sum

>   # Generate templates with clusterctl, change control plane and worker count according to the number of bmhs

Reviewer: Could you wrap the comments so we don't get so long lines? In the web page preview these go outside the code box so it is necessary to scroll to see them.
